Now we're going to look at how feature importance is implemented in sci-kit learn.
So to get started,
I'd recommend you open up the notebook in a separate tab,
so that you can follow along with the videos in a separate tab.
So if you hover your mouse over the Jupyter icon where you see it,
it says Jupyter, just right-click,
open link in new tab.
Now in this new tab, you'll see this directory of the files.
Were working on SKLearn feature importance notebook,
so go ahead and open that.
So we'll get a sense of how feature importance is calculated in sci-kit learn,
and also see where it gives results that we wouldn't expect.
So that's a key part of lesson is that,
it gives results that we probably wouldn't expect.
Sci-kit learn uses gini impurity to calculate a measure of impurity for each node.
Gini impurity, like entropy,
is a way to measure how dis-organized the observations
are before and after splitting them using a feature.
So there's an impurity measure for each node.
So think of impurity as,
you have many different colored socks in your drawer,
the more variety of colors there are,
the more impure your drawer of sock is.
In the formula, frequency sub i is the frequency of label i.
C is the number of unique labels at that node.
So for instance, the data that we'll have just has two different label values.
So in this case, the letter C would have the value of two.
So this is the formula,
the frequency times 1 minus the frequency.
The node importance in sci kit learn is calculated as a difference,
between the gini impurity of the node
and the gini impurity of its left and right children.
Okay. So, ignore the w's for now,
and just notice you have the impurity of a particular node such as the root node,
and then you subtract the sum of the impurity from that nodes;
left child and its right child.
Next. These gini impurities are weighted by
the number of data points that reach each node.
So these weights, represent the number of nodes that are in the parent node,
and the number of nodes that get filtered down to the left node or the right node.
Okay. So just a reminder,
if the parent node had a 100,
then the sum of the left and right child's in terms of the number
of observations will sum up to the number of observations in the parent.
Okay. So there's a 100 here,
there might be 40 here,
and that means there would be 60 in this other node.
The importance of a feature is the importance of the node that it was split on,
divided by the sum of all the node importance's in the tree.
So the sum of all the node importance's of the tree,
this is a way to normalize this result.
Okay. So you've got to practice this in the notebook below, this notebook.
For additional reading please check out this blog: The Mathematics of Decision Trees,
Random Forests and Feature Importance in Sci-Kit learn and Spark.
So it's this blog right here which is very well-written.
You can also continue on with the lesson first.